# THESIS - Migrant-Crisis-In-Europe. Mining Themes and Perceptions in Immigration Coverage; A Discourse Analysis, Latent Dirichlet Allocation Topic Modeling and Sentiment Analysis Approach

The European migrant crisis has immensely shaped public discourse, perceptions, and policies, indicating the media’s ability to influence attitudes toward refugees, asylum seekers, immigrants, and migrants (RASIM). This study investigates media coverage of migration in Europe through an integrative approach comprising discourse analysis, Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) topic modelling, and sentiment analysis. The study relies on tools such as AntConc, #LancBox, and Python to examine how migration is discussed in a corpus of migration-related news articles. 

Key findings explain that RASIM is mainly associated with markers like nationality, movement, dependency, and criminality. With topic modelling, the dataset reveals five major frames: Maritime Migration and Human Stories, Labor Migration and Economic impact, Geopolitics and Border Control, Refugees and Family Dynamics, and Government Policies and Detention. Also, Negative sentiment dominates the corpus with crisis and burden metaphors, especially in security-related topics, while humanitarian themes, albeit underrepresented, emphasize empathy and resilience. Sentiment differs geographically, which mirrors the uneven impact across European nations. 

The study also highlights the media’s tendency to control societal views and migration policies through their publications. It alerts that negative stereotype and oversimplified security narratives promote exclusion, while limited positive framing stifles progress toward integration. The findings of this study provide a framework for ethical reporting and advocate for an extensive multilingual and multimedia analysis in future research.
